1.Write a query to display the customer number , firstname, customer’s date of birth . Display in a sorted order of date of birth year and within that sort by firstname.
+


SELECT custid, fname, dob
FROM customer
ORDER BY year(DOB), fname;

2.Write a query to display customer’s number, first name and middle name. The customer’s who don’t have middle name, for them display the last name. Give the alias name as Cust_Name.

SELECT concat(fname, " ", ifnull(mname, ltname)) AS 'CUST_NAME'
FROM customer;



3.Write a query to display account number, customer’s number, customer’s firstname,lastname,account opening date.


SELECT a.acnumber, a.custid, c.fname, c.ltname, a.aod
FROM account a, customer c
WHERE a.custid=c.custid;


4.Write a query to display the number of customer’s from Delhi. Give the count an alias name of Cust_Count.
+
SELECT count(custid) as 'CUST_COUNT'
FROM customer
WHERE city='DELHI';

5.Write a query to display  the customer number, customer firstname,account number for the customer’s whose accounts were created after 15th of any month.

SELECT c.custid, c.fname, a.acnumber
FROM customer c, account a
WHERE c.custid=a.custid AND day(a.aod)>15;


6.Write a query to display the  customers firstname, city and account number who are not into business, service or studies.

SELECT c.fname, c.city, a.acnumber
FROM customer c, account a
WHERE c.custid=a.custid AND occupation in ('Business', 'service', 'student');



7.Write a query to display city name and count of branches in that city. Give the count of branches an alias name of Count_Branch.

SELECT bcity, count(bid) as 'COUNT_BRANCH'
FROM branch
GROUP BY bcity;



8.Write a query to display account id, customer’s firstname, customer’s lastname for the customer’s whose account is Active.

SELECT a.acnumber, c.fname, c.ltname
FROM customer c, account a
WHERE c.custid=a.custid AND a.astatus='active';


9.Write a query to display the customer’s number, customer’s firstname, branch id and loan amount for people who have taken loans.
SELECT c.custid, c.fname, l.bid, l.loan_amount
FROM customer c, loan l
WHERE c.custid=l.custid;



10.Write a query to display customer number, customer name, account number where the account status is terminated.

SELECT c.custid, c.fname, a.acnumber
FROM customer c, account a
WHERE c.custid=a.custid AND a.astatus='Terminated';
